Datapress
=========

Datapress provides rich, interactive data visualization and sharing capabilities for Wordpress blogs.

Running
-------

To run Datapress:

   * Visit [our page](https://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/datapress/) on the Wordpress Plugin site
   * Download the most recent version
   * Unzip the file into your Wordpress plugin directory (`$WP_ROOT/wp-content/plugins`)

To compile Datapress manually:

   * Clone this repository
   * Run `python package.py --blast --o $WP_ROOT/wp-content/plugins/datapress` from the `packager` directory

... but please note that the Github version of Datapress does not yet contain all the features of the original version

Notes for Developers
--------------------

### Building the Plugin

Datapress has a package script that takes the code in this repository and assembles the plugin. The reason for this is that, for testing reasons, it is easier to develop some portions of the plugin as stand-alone web pages, and then to have the important pieces (called *snippits*) of these pages ripped out and injected into the plugin code. This also helps us enforce a nice client/server separation of components.

The packager script will help you develop while testing against a live WordPress installation. To do so, create the directory `$WP_ROOT/wp-content/plugins/datapress`. Then, any time you want to deploy the latest version of your code to that directory, run:

    python package.py --blast --outputdir $WP_ROOT/wp-content/plugins/datapress

The script will remove the existing directory (the `--blast` option), copy in the `plugin` directory, and then inject any snippits these files reference. This snippit injection step is simple string substitution. The script will iterate over all .php files in the output directory and search for the pattern `##INCLUDE:{file}:{snippit}`. It will then look for the file `file`, relative to the project root, and search within it for the specfied snippit. 

Snippits are defined within HTML comment tags.
    
    <!-- begin-snippit:{REGION NAME} -->
    <!-- end-snippit:{REGION NAME} -->

### Snippit Example

Let's say we have the following files:

**viz-editor/editor.html**

    <html>
      <body>
        <!-- begin-snippit:hello -->
        <p>Hi</p>
        <!-- end-snippit:hello -->
      </body>
    </html>

**plugin/viz-editor.php**

    $editorHtml = <<<HTML
    ##INCLUDE:viz-editor/editor.html:hello
    HTML;

The packager script would rewrite `vis-editor.php` so that it contains the following code:

    $editorHtml = <<<HTML
    <!-- begin-snippit:hello -->
    <p>Hi</p>
    <!-- end-snippit:hello -->
    HTML;

### Original Codebase

The github-hosted code here is a rewrite of the original [original Datapress plugin](http://code.google.com/p/datapress), hosted on Google Code.
